We're gonna talk about
buttons a whole lot more,
way more than you probably
wanted to know about buttons.
So buttons are for toggling things.
Like you have a setting in your user
interface, you're gonna make a button.
They're also for forms.
They submit forms,
they might toggle other features in forms.
You have button or button types submit.
So they're meant for interacting with the
page, whereas links are for navigation.
So we wanna use links with href
attributes for navigating.
Sometimes, with JavaScript, everything's
a hammer, and it's really odd.
You have a hammer, and
everything's a nail, and
you can just bend it to your will.
But for users, it can be confusing when
everything is a link or a button, and
we're not really intentional with
the semantic purpose of those.
So links navigate, buttons toggle things.
Buttons are for interactive things,
which we have quite a few use cases for,
and sometimes it can vary, like,
is your modal deep linked?
If it's deep linked,
then you're gonna need to launch it
with a link that has a href and a URL.
But if it's just like a stateful change
that doesn't have a link attached to it,
or an endpoint that the user can get to,
then a button's probably fine.
Cuz you're gonna launch something, you
hit refresh, and it's not gonna persist.
So sometimes it can depend on
what you're doing with it.
Like, does it have a link or not?
So yeah, that's kind of like setting
the scene for links versus buttons.
But when there are buttons in the code
base, we want them to be real buttons,
not that div with a click event.
Cuz like man, nothing pains me more
than seeing that in codebases,
especially when you can't
just rip it out immediately.
I'm like, let me add it, let me rip
that div button out of there, but
you can't always.
So my goal in this is to help
you spot these before they ship.
Don't let them ship, and
don't ship them yourselves.
[LAUGH].
So here's what it takes to make
a div into an accessible button.
We've got the onClick.
All right, we had that already.
We have to edit onKeyDown or
onKeyUp with a key handler, and
we're probably going to have to check
the event code off the event object.
Check if it was the space or
the Enter key, then run our logic.
That is where you can respond to different
keyboard events, like the arrow keys and
things.
We also, on our div button,
we have to add a role of button, and
we have to add a tabIndex of
zero to make it focusable.
And the text inside will give it a name or
a label.
But if it was just a button,
we could skip so much of that.
It would be so much simpler.
We don't have to write that extra handler.
We don't have to add a role.
We don't have to add tabIndex.
It's just easier.
Now, why do people do this?
I don't know.
Sometimes, it's the styling,
not only the legacy styling that
you don't wanna risk changing.
Sometimes, people are just kind of lazy,
[LAUGH] to be frank.
Like, but I have to style it.
It's like, well,
you're capable of so much.
You can do that, I hope.
I mean, maybe there's some other
constraints I don't know about,
but get a good button reset so
that it's not an issue.
Just make it easy to make button elements.
To make some good defaults.
So be on the lookout for those,
cuz they're some of the most pervasive,
failures for keyboard accessibility.
And we're gonna work on
one in our exercise,
of one that's inspired
by a real-world example.
And so, yeah, keep an eye out for that.
And then, a note about AI here, because I
feel like a lot of the conversation lately
has been around what can AI do for us?
How can we get away with
fewer engineering resources?
Resources or real people.
But I think there's kind of this elephant
in the room that capitalistic folks,
leadership trying to please stakeholders,
want to cut costs.
And so, AI enters the conversation
of like, what can it do for us?
Can we have the screen
readers just figure it out?
So we don't have to change
our authoring process.
We don't have to fix stuff.
We'll just let the screen
reader figure it out.
We can't rely on that.
I mean, first of all,
we can do better than that.
I don't think we wanna give up.
We aren't free from the requirement of
actually making something accessible.
But we also can't expect assistive
technology or AI to solve it for us.
With assistive technology in particular,
that's a very fancy piece of software
that a lot of people can't afford.
Or they're on a really old version,
they might need a grant, or
some sort of government assistance
to get that technology.
So it's like a pretty privileged
point of view to think that AI and
assistive tech can just solve it for us.
I think, instead, it's good to cover
these basics and feel some sense
of pride in the fact that we can make
stuff that's way more robust at its core.
>> So basically, button and
anchor tags are equivalent to buttons.
Can you clarify what you
mean by buttons in quotes?
Do you mean in terms of how someone with
assistive technologies perceive them,
or do you mean by how they look?
>> Both.
So there's kind of an overlap here.
Great question.
So we wanna make links look like links and
buttons look like buttons
as much as possible.
When sometimes, our CTAs, I have worked
with some that if you pass this button,
an href, it'll turn it into a link.
But it's a button component.
And I think where it gets confusing for
users is if you can see the screen, but
you're using assistive technology.
Say, you call into customer support, and
they're helping to navigate
you through an application.
There can be some confusion there
about what is this element?
And similarly, for voice navigation,
kinda like what you see on the screen is
how you're gonna know what to tell your
voice assistant what to interact with.
So sometimes,
that gap in how something's marked
up versus how it looks can have an impact
on how people can navigate the site.
So it is partly the semantic meaning
of the button in the link, but then,
also, user expectations.
And that can get tricky.
Sometimes, this is a battle
that I do not win.
I pick my battles.
And sometimes,
links are gonna look like buttons.
It's not ideal, but I mean, talk about
design decisions and user impact.
Sometimes we have to weigh
the cost of what it takes to
totally redesign our CTAs for
the user impact.
I don't know, it's kind of squishy.
It's not super clearly defined, and
it might not be the highest impact
thing that you have to deal with.
So I'm putting it out there so
that you know to look out for it.
But I wouldn't say it's
the biggest blocker in the world.
Having things like div buttons and
links that aren't reachable or operable,
I think that would be
a way bigger blocker.
>> I guess a common pattern that I've seen
is links that are just like a slightly
more elevated buttons,
where it changes the route, but
also does like a snippet
of business logic.
Maybe pinging the database, analytics,
tracking, updating the state.
Is there a good pattern for that where
you still wanna have an hrefs, but
just a little bit more like
having a function call?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think if it's
a client-rendered application,
we'll talk about a little bit later, you
should be able to route it and call logic.
Yeah, I'd have to test it directly.
But I think if you're not losing stuff
to a page refresh, you have some
potential of being able to fire click
event that calls out to analytics,
or fetches something, and using routing.
I mean, you can use ARIA to change
the semantics of something.
But, as we'll learn
with the rules of ARIA,
we wanna try and
avoid changing rules after the fact.
We wanna use the default semantic
thing first, if at all possible.
>> So I had a question about, I guess,
when you're trying to get a little bit
fancier, and you're trying to sort of
balance accessibility concerns against,
I guess, event bubbling.
So, I've had some examples in a code
base where there's this div and
it's got some click handlers on it.
It's responding to clicks and
keyboards, but
it's not supposed to
be interactive itself.
It's trusting that there's a button
downstream that kicks off an event and
bubbles up the div,
kinda catches it, does some extra stuff,
and then just lets it go through again.
Is that something we should
generally try to avoid?
Or is that something we're just, I guess,
user beware when you're trying
to do something like that?
It's like ARIA where you can very easily
mess things up, and you just have to be
very careful with how you're setting
things up and getting them wired.
>> Great question.
So there are legitimate uses
of click events on divs.
So I'm glad you brought it up,
because not everything needs
to be wrapped with a button.
So I guess that's a potential gotcha
that I'm just so glad that you asked
this question because we don't need
to wrap a button around everything.
Only interactive things.
So say you've got a card component that
the whole thing needs to be clickable, but
you can call that same function off of
a button on the card or from a link.
You can do the same thing on
an interactive element within the card.
It is perfectly fine to put
a JavaScript mouse event so
that you can click the card, but
then, there's still a reachable,
operable target within it that
you can get to from the keyboard.
That is why it's a little bit hard for
automated tooling to
catch this type of issue.
So we're gonna talk about that later too.
Because it's fine to put a click event
on something that's not reachable,
as long as you can do the same
function another way.
So yeah, it can be done, and
it's why Axe doesn't flag stuff like that.
Cuz the computer can't always
tell whether it's legit or not.
[LAUGH] It's kind of subjective,
it can be hard to tell.
But you will know, and you can write some
feature tests around that stuff that bake
in a contract of like, this should be
clickable, this part should be focusable.
And I can write tests that
assert all those things.
And then that can help with
clarifying how it should work.
It'd be like, no, no,
this click event is okay.
These want like,
that's because there's this other thing
that does the same functionality.